Create alternate-fetches.md (#532)
linkeddata/rdflib.js: Documentation/alternate-fetches.md

# Using authenticated and alternate fetches in rdflib

> By default, rdflib's fetcher uses cross-fetch.fetch() to preform reads and writes.  This is a plain fetch similar to wget or curl that does not carry any authentication information.  In order to use rdflib with private Solid data that requires authentication, the user or app needs to pass a different fetch method to rdflib.  This approach is also useful if you have created your own fetch, for example against Dropbox or a database.                                                                       

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `rdflib`'s fetcher uses `cross-fetch.fetch()` to preform reads and writes.  This is a plain `fetch`, similar to `wget` or `curl`, that does not carry any authentication information.  To use `rdflib` with private Solid data that requires authentication, the user or app needs to pass a different fetch method to `rdflib`.  This approach is also useful if you have created your own fetch, such as against Dropbox or a database.                                                                       
```

## The solidFetch variable                                                

> To to use an authenticated or alternate fetch with rdflib

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To to use an authenticated or alternate fetch with `rdflib`
```

> To to use an authenticated or alternate fetch with `rdflib`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use an authenticated or alternate fetch with `rdflib`
```

> 1. load the authentication library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Load the authentication library.
```

> 2. use it to login to your identity provider
> 3. set the global.solidFetch (or window.solidFetch in a browser) equal to the auth library's fetch method
> 4. load and use rdflib, all fetches will be authenticated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use it to log in to your identity provider.
3. Set the `global.solidFetch` (or `window.solidFetch` in a browser) equal to the auth library's fetch method.
4. Load and use `rdflib`.  All fetches will be authenticated.
```

> **Important Note :** prior to rdflib version 2.2.9 this variable was named solidFetcher so use that with older rdflibs.  Going forward, please use solidFetch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_**Important Note:** Prior to `rdflib` version `2.2.9`, this variable was named `solidFetcher`, so use that with older `rdflib`s.  Going forward, please use `solidFetch`._
```

### A CLI (out-of-browser) Example

```javascript                                                                   
async function test() {
    const auth = new (require("solid-node-client").SolidNodeClient)();
    await auth.login( your-credentials );                             
    global.solidFetch = auth.fetch;                                   
    const $rdf = global.$rdf = require('rdflib');                     
    const kb = $rdf.graph(); 
    const fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb);
    await fetcher.load( some-private-url );  
}
```               

### A Browser Example

> This is a fully functinal script, just change the IDP and privateResource addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a fully functional script; just change the `IdP` and `privateResource` addresses.
```

    document.getElementById('login').onclick = ()=> {                           
        auth.login({                                                            
            oidcIssuer: idp,                                                    
            redirectUrl: window.location.href,                                  
            clientName: "rdflib test"                                           
        });                                                                     
    }                                                                           
    async function handleRedirectAfterLogin() {                                 
        await auth.handleIncomingRedirect();                                    
        session = auth.getDefaultSession();                                     
        if (session.info.isLoggedIn)  main(session);                            
    }                                                                           
    handleRedirectAfterLogin();                                                 
</script></html>                                                                
```

##  Custom fetchers

> Another way to specify an authenticated or alternate fetch is to do it when you create the fetcher.  This method follows the same steps as the first method with two exceptions : omit the line *global.solidFetch = auth.fetch* and instead of the line *const fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb)* use :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to specify an authenticated or alternate fetch is to do it when you create the fetcher.  This method follows the same steps as the first method, with two exceptions: omit the line *`global.solidFetch = auth.fetch`*; and instead of the line *`const fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb)`* use :
```

```javascript
const fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb,{fetch:auth.fetch.bind(auth)});
```

## Currently available libraries with authenticated fetch methods

* [Inrupt's Solid-Client-Authn-Browser](https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-js) for use in browsers

> * [Inrupt's Solid-Client-Authn-Node](https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-js) for use in node when you don't need full access to the local file system
> * [Solid-Node-Client](https://github.com/solid/solid-node-client) for use in node when you need full access to the local file system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Inrupt's Solid-Client-Authn-Node](https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-js) for use in `node`, when you don't need full access to the local file system
* [Solid-Node-Client](https://github.com/solid/solid-node-client) for use in `node`, when you need full access to the local file system
```

        });                                                                     
    }                                                                           
    async function handleRedirectAfterLogin() {                                 
        await auth.handleIncomingRedirect();                                    
        session = auth.getDefaultSession();                                     
        if (session.info.isLoggedIn)  main(session);                            
    }                                                                           
    handleRedirectAfterLogin();                                                 
</script></html>                                                                
```

##  Custom fetchers

Another way to specify an authenticated or alternate fetch is to do it when you create the fetcher object.  This method follows the same steps as the first method, with two exceptions: omit the line *`global.solidFetch = auth.fetch`*; and instead of the line *`const fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb)`* use :
```javascript
const fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb,{fetch:auth.fetch.bind(auth)});
```

> Doing things this way avoids using global variables, but also means that the changes to fetch need to be added every time you create a new fetcher object.

Reviewer 2: Is this true ?
My understanding was that the fetch was installed as $rdf.fetch so was kept if you do not create a new rdf object. It is the way it is used in SolidOS. You can create new store $rdf.graph() or $rdf.fetcher() and keep the same $rdf.fetch.

Author: @bourgeoa - I believe you are wrong.  I tested and could not make it work.  If you create a fetcher with fetcher = $rdf.fetcher(kb) without options it will be an unauthenticted fetch even if you previously created a fetcher that was authenticated.  If you have a test case where the authentication is preserved across creation of fetchers, please post it.

Author: This succeeds on the first fetch and fails 401 on the second : 
```
const auth = new (require("solid-node-client").SolidNodeClient)();              
const $rdf = global.$rdf = require('rdflib');                                   
const privateResource = "https://jeff-zucker.solidcommunity.net/private/";      
async function test() {                                                         
    await auth.login();                                                         
    const kb = $rdf.graph();                                                    
    const fetcher1 = $rdf.fetcher(kb,{fetch:auth.fetch.bind(auth)});            
    try {                                                                       
       await fetcher1.load(privateResource);                                    
       console.log("Private resource successfully loaded");                     
     }                                                                          
    catch(e) { console.log(e) }                                                 
    const fetcher2 = $rdf.fetcher(kb);                                          
    try {                                                                       
       await fetcher2.load(privateResource);                                    
       console.log("Private resource successfully loaded");                     
     }                                                                          
    catch(e) { console.log(e) }                                                 
}                                                                               
test();    
```

Author: If I am correct in this, it is really important that within solidOS, if we need to create a new fetcher, we grab the _fetch from the existing fetch method in case the user has over-ridden it.

Reviewer 2: Yes you are right. I was fully wrong. Fetcher do not default to current fetch.

Author: Worth checking, though, thanks for your careful eye.
